rephrase opening paragraph.

rewrite 1.1

1.2 update bullet 2.  Make it four pieces to include compiler

1.3 fix "to use user-defined..."

1.3 2nd par: point about how algos are written was just made at end of 1.2

Skipped Ch. 2

Ch. 3: 1st par re-write forward-looking statement

3.1: We should document BUGS ourselves.  Perhaps a new chapter that together with Chapter 5 could be Part II out of 4 parts.  I think a lot of the content is actually in Chapter 5, but it could maybe be reorganized into a more complete explanation of BUGS and split into two chapters.

3.1 bullet 3: Agree with CJP on rewriting

Ch. 3 could use a short section on how NIMBLE extends BUGS rather than just stating that it does.

3.2 "setup" and "run" should be defined within the enumeration points

3.2: Again agree with need to rewrite unused terms away.

3.3: It's awkward that points 2-3 say "A nimbleFunction that" while the other's don't say that, even though 1 & 4 are also nimbleFunctions.

3.3 bullet 3: On the fence about this since they are algos and do illustrate the glaring deficiency that other systems don't even allow one to simulate from a model.  Maybe re-order and re-frame the points?

3.3 bullet 5: Remove defensiveness about MCEM.

3.3 CJP point: I don't think so.  Let's follow up.

Ch. 4: We should check if configure now has gained other options.

It could become 4 parts: Part II could be Chapter 5 and a chapter on BUGS

Ch. 5: First 2 paragraphs could be sharpened.

5.1 1st par: repetitive

5.1.3: point 1: check if this should say user-defined *functions*

5.1.3: point 3: ...(as an argument to nimbleModel when creating the model).

5.2.1 : "When a variable appears only on the right-hand side, it must be provided in data or constants"  A reader jumping to this chapter hasn't seen "data or constants" yet.  Point 3 below the code acknowledges that, but it's out of order.

5.2.1: Footnote 4 has an extra space

5.2.2: Footnote 5 seems repetitive, unnecessary.

5.2.3: We could make another try at centering this table.  I remember it was hard to get latex to do it right before.  Or the Lower/Upper information could be formatted differently.  It could go with the parameter constraints, or be a single column with entries like [0,1].  Some of the density equations will get narrower is we use superscripting for e^exponent instead of \exp{}.

5.2.3: We should make a distributions list for BUGS that follow's R's default parameterization and use it via an option. DT says that was confusing to his students who didn't bring BUGS baggage with them to NIMBLE.

5.2.3: Alternative parameterization points: 1. push comment on Rmath.h into a footnote

Table 5.2: Missing parentheses in a dgamma case

Table 5.2: Ditto on centering and/or narrowing

below table 5.2: "of either of" ---> "of one of", and the "covariance/scale" matrix is not clear.

Table 5.4: Some of these entries should be updated.  e.g. logical operators can now take vector arguments.  There may some missing operators.

Table 5.4: Ditto on centering or narrowing

Table 5.5: eigen and svd

5.2.5: We should first state how a deterministic link function is processed and then segue to stochastic case.

5.2.6: two paragraphs before "missing values" could be simplified.

5.2.6: Missing data values: "The result will be..." is redundant

5.2.6 Last paragraph makes no sense. Providing a prior would make them not be RHS-only

5.2.7: First par: remove the comparison to BUGS and JAGS

5.2.8: I still want to simplify this but want to think about how.

General comment: How about if we consolidate comparisons to BUGS and JAGS into their own subsections so readers can look at compatibility if they want but if not they can just look at how NIMBLE works.

Some of 5.4.2 is relevant to previous subsections (e.g. understanding variables vs. nodes)

5.4.2: CJP red question: I think model[['X[1,2:5]']] without correct spacing will fail.

5.4.2: Mixes explanation of concepts with command introductions.  Should we have a quick-reference table of all model-querying commands?

5.4.3: Maybe more examples of getDependencies would help.

Ch. 6: First sentence.  I think this could be misunderstood to mean that one must sit down and write a new MCMC for each model, if the reader doesn't know that "built" means "built by NIMBLE".  Not what we want to convey.  This chapter intro should be re-written to say MCMC in nimble is flexible and what the chapter will cover.

Ch. 6: We could summarize the MCMC workflow and flexibility with a figure.

6.1: 3rd bullet incorrectly implies a one-to-one relationship between nodes and samplers.

How about a standard style for including function names in subsection titles.  E.g. "Adding samplers to the configuration: \code{addSampler}"

6.1. general: There is lots of mixing of different level content.  Maybe it should start with an end-to-end example and then go into details.  Otherwise a reader wades through the required content of a samplerConf before getting to how to extract samples.

6.8 and elsewhere: I've never liked the term "sampler algorithms".  Can we drop "algorithms"?  Everything is an algorithm.

6.8.xx have repetitive pieces of description.  Some of the sampler-specific text is of very limited utility to the reader.

Ch. 9: Will need lots of revisions.

9.3.9: This list of distribution functions is in BUGS style, not including the "x" argument.
